PHASE 5A / I2 — TEAM / OWNER / ADMIN COMMAND COMMIT

The public Team mutation exports now own the ENTIRE command transaction:
preparatory reads -> domain locks/authority -> mutation -> required audit ->
result. The internal Serializable wrapper is a checked join, not a second root.
The existing domain lock order and permission checks are retained. A conflict
retries all command reads. Root-only input accepts a real Prisma root client.

Admin composition passes BOTH db=context.tx and commitContext explicitly. A
joined Team mutation requires Serializable and the same agency. The platform
member-access entry point and platformAdmin removal require ADMIN_COMMAND intent;
they cannot accidentally open an independent, unaudited Team root. Only the
central Admin executor supplies that context in production. Context intent does
not replace the executor's live AdminUser/AdminSession authorization.

All 12 ordinary Team mutations require their AuditLog insert in the same root.
Authenticated and registration invitation claims also require their audit.
Registration still hashes the password before the retryable transaction and
sends verification only after commit. Invitation grant CAS uses current DB time
after the locks, and raw serialization/deadlock failures are not converted into
false INVITE_ROLE_STALE rejections. Signup, trial issuance and the one-Owner
bootstrap use the existing schema and triggers.

Team access-epoch notifications join the root hint buffer. Role changes reserve
one buffer entry for the whole affected role, avoiding a new 1024-member limit.
Role queries retain their agency/role/live predicates; this cutover adds no
global or historical scan. Production index selectivity remains a scale gate.
The existing post-commit per-member event fan-out is retained; it is advisory.

Admin execute/read commands use the kernel with the contract's existing isolation
level. The command row is outside the domain savepoint. Domain 4xx rolls that
savepoint back and preserves the audited rejection receipt. Transient conflicts
escape to the root retry instead of becoming durable business rejections.
discardCommitHints(context) clears advisory effects when a root commits its
rejected-command receipt. Operational hint closures are per-attempt and flush
after the confirmed root commit; replay does not publish another notification.
Exhausted Admin conflicts retain the existing HTTP 409 conflict code.
Admin rechecks session expiry after domain waits/work and before releasing the
domain savepoint. Expiry rolls the mutation/hints back and records a rejection.

Owner plan/transfer use the same kernel. Transfer still commits old-owner
demotion, new-owner promotion, key-wrap changes, session revocation, durable
logout commands and its idempotency audit receipt together. Exactly-one-owner
database enforcement is unchanged. Owner notification data comes only from the
final committed attempt, and notification failure cannot reverse the result.
The direct Owner session is rechecked after topology/user locks at handover;
an admission-time session that expired during those waits cannot grant ownership.

TEAM_MANAGEMENT: Serializable, maxWait 5s, timeout 15s, total deadline 20s,
lock timeout 5s, statement timeout 15s. ADMIN_COMMAND uses the same budgets and
ReadCommitted unless its action contract requires Serializable. These are explicit
bounded command profiles, not measured production latency guarantees.

Validation commands:
  npm run test:phase5-commit
  npm run test:phase5-team
  PHASE5_PROOF_RUNTIME=/path/to/audit-runtime npm run audit:phase5-team-postgres
The proof runtime needs @electric-sql/pglite and @electric-sql/pglite-socket.
The DB proof migrates a new disposable database using the full migration chain,
uses the real Prisma Client and actual services, injects audit failures/conflicts,
and checks DB rollback, receipts, authority, hint delivery and tenant isolation.
Route-domain proofs supply a synthetic authenticated request; they do not bypass
or claim to validate HTTP authentication middleware. No production URL is used.
1100-member role proof exercises the hint-capacity boundary, not platform SLA.
Native multi-connection contention/multi-replica/fault-load closure remains open.

The active gate explicitly lists inherited historical inventory failures. Their
full baseline/candidate diagnostic logs are preserved; they are not counted as
passing tests. No audit/assertion is disabled in production for the test fixtures.

Still outside this cutover: job-lease clock and durable catch-up consequences;
remaining transaction families including Admin background execution/session/read
helpers not routed through executeAdminCommand; Desktop LocalAI. Phase5A is NOT
SOURCE CLOSED or SCALE CLOSED. No Desktop/schema/dependency/deployment-command
change is required for I2. Render build remains npm install && npm run prisma:migrate.
