ONLINOD — PHASE 7 — LEGACY STORAGE RETIREMENT
Generation: phase7_legacy_storage_v1
Original retirement implementation: Desktop99 + Backend 2026-09-30T145724.447.
Admission update126: exact current source receipt and staged migration verification.

PURPOSE AND OWNERSHIP
Phase 7 retires old producers, transfers outstanding effects and consumption
receipts, freezes historical archives, and permits a separately gated DROP of
nine legacy physical tables. It does not migrate raw dialog history to a server.
Current CRM/FanData, Team *Current, ModuleSetting, ContentCollection, HiddenOnline,
financial facts, leases, typed commands and access authority retain their owners.
All291 existing migration SQL files remain unchanged in126. The Phase7 expand
and contract are already part of that history;126 adds no database migration. Never use db push, schema-only baselines or a direct unqualified
prisma migrate deploy for this transition: that would include the contract.

INSTALLATION
Use the cumulative changed-only Backend/Desktop ZIPs on the matching supplied
actual124 base;125 is included in126. See onlinod126_result.txt for source overlay
and build instructions. Checkpoint ZIPs are recovery archives, not install patches.
This ordinary source update does not require a new phase7-release.json and does
not authorize a production contract. Existing historical manifests are retained.
Keep backups and the actual stopped-source deployment procedure. Old source-only
rollback is never a database rollback after a separately authorized DROP.

Backend: npm install; npm run prisma:generate; npm run prisma:migrate.
Desktop: use the existing BAT/build workflow. The patch contains source, not
Windows/Electron binaries. This pass did not validate native installation.

DEPLOYMENT AND ROLLING COMPATIBILITY
  npm run prisma:migrate

Readiness and contract preparation verify the exact legacy/archive columns,
types, nullability, defaults and PK/unique/FK/check constraints against the frozen
268-migration catalog, in addition to the Phase7 trigger/function/index contracts.
Unknown changes to that selected physical shape fail closed.
The wrapper validates canonical migration checksums and rejects unknown, failed
or unbaselined populated histories. Ordinary deployment applies the exact
canonical retained-schema history (290 migrations in126). A proven empty database runs the
canonical history before preflights that require base tables. Existing databases
retain all eight previous preflights and four postflights. Online Phase7 indexes
are built outside transactions; invalid named indexes require operator repair.
After the contract has already been recorded, ordinary redeploy accepts the
complete history including the recorded contract (291 migrations in126) and
the PURGED physical state.

Expand freezes INSERT/UPDATE on all 36 legacy/archive tables and TRUNCATE even
when empty. Authorized lifecycle deletion is exact agency/creator scoped, keeps
immutable receipts, and invalidates only affected export partitions. Nullable
FK cleanup is allowed only as actual referential detach or scoped lifecycle
cleanup, not arbitrary data edits. Proof and chunk receipts cannot be updated,
deleted or truncated. Existing production GC no longer deletes old AutomationJob
or TrafficDailyAggregate rows before their handoff/export.

New Desktop requires legacyStorageRetirementV1 acknowledgement for shared job
and action acquisition. An old Backend's returned claim is released using its
exact lease and is not passed to the executor. New Backend refuses old Desktop
claim requests with 426. SQL acquisition gates also cover internal job/action/
domain claims. An already-held old lease may finish or expire; the contract
refuses remaining old active executions. Do not infer that a capability string
proves a process stopped. Operator inventory covers the deployed generations.

Fan observations use only the activated creator clock. Expand captures the old
floor under the barrier/old-clock lock; future-skewed or malformed clock state
fails closed. After activation the runtime never reads the old singleton.

ARCHIVE AND OBLIGATION HANDOFF
Run maintenance with the installed source and a maintenance database connection.
Choose an operator-managed persistent archive volume or durable backup workflow.
An ephemeral Render filesystem, fsync, or another directory on the same disk is
not by itself durable independent backup. Upload/copy the completed artifacts
and manifests into your managed backup, then restore a distinct directory for
readback. The code verifies that restored content and scope; the operator must
truthfully attest persistence, backup identity, retention and stopped binaries.
No cloud storage adapter or provider API call is part of this package.

  node scripts/maintenance/phase7-legacy-storage.js status
  node scripts/maintenance/phase7-legacy-storage.js indexes --create
  node scripts/maintenance/phase7-legacy-storage.js handoff --steps=100
  node scripts/maintenance/phase7-legacy-storage.js run --archive-dir=/persistent/export --steps=100
  node scripts/maintenance/phase7-legacy-storage.js verify --restore-dir=/independent/restored --steps=100

All commands are bounded and may be repeated. Enumeration persists its keyset
cursor and visits agency partitions fairly; it never loads all agencies or counts
an entire archive. Each export page is <=500 rows and <=8 MiB; the CLI asks for
100 rows. SQL computes row byte sizes before materializing payloads in Node.
An oversized row becomes BLOCKED, not truncated or declared exported. IO/fsync
occurs outside DB transactions. Lease owner/revision/source epoch CAS publishes
only the committed immutable chunk. A crash may leave harmless uncommitted
artifacts. Preserve only chunks named by committed DB receipts for recovery.

Every chunk has a .jsonl file and a bounded .manifest.json sidecar. Restore also
needs the database backup with cohort/partition/chunk/proof receipts. Retain both
files and the receipt database. Verification checks every payload, sidecar,
identity, table, agency, source epoch, sequence, byte length, digest and chain
from a different absolute directory. Export and restore root hashes are bound
to the final operator evidence. Empty partitions need no fake data chunk.

SFS flags legacyMigration/safetyCleanup alone do not authorize compensation.
Handoff requires a scoped durable current follow receipt or the strictly bound
historical P14 compensation identity. Candidate generation can advance while an
attested old follow still needs cleanup. Agency, creator, immutable provider
subject, target, delivery, generation, candidate and follow ownership remain
bound. Used-marker consumption is durable even if the old candidate disappeared.
Unknown effects and outstanding cleanup block source deletion/identity cleanup.
No generic DONE classification is used to silently erase a possible SFS effect.

BLOCKED work is explicit and does not stop other partitions in the same CLI run.
The command still exits with a failure when any partition was blocked. status
returns 50 rows plus continuation; use --after=<nextCursor>. Read the exact error.
Restore access/storage failures, complete current legitimate cleanup or resolve
missing ownership evidence through its actual domain owner, then explicitly use:
  node scripts/maintenance/phase7-legacy-storage.js resume --id=<partition-id>
Do not edit proof JSON, fake successful effects, truncate sources, delete a
blocked row manually or increase row size without a reviewed migration. A row
that exceeds the fixed archive budget requires a separately reviewed streaming
format; this package deliberately does not authorize data loss to get to DROP.

HISTORICAL ADMIN READER
27 retained archive tables stay read-only. CRM/tag/note/vault browsing requires
agency or creator scope, has byte and row bounds, and exposes continuation with
unknown totals. Profile children have independent continuation. Creator-only tag
browsing traverses that creator's profiles, including empty/deleted-page edges.
Text filters apply to the bounded page; an empty filtered page can still have a
next page. Global archive full-text search/counts are not provided. Current
operational typed commands and delivery/content lifecycle controls remain active.

DESTRUCTIVE CONTRACT: SEPARATE OPERATOR STEP
A default deploy never executes DROP. Before preparing the contract:
- every destructive cohort was enumerated and every partition restore-verified;
- old process inventory and allowed rollback generations were stopped;
- old claims drained, missing legacy cleanup proofs resolved;
- persistent backup was restored and its retention is still valid;
- the exact installed Backend source set and both release hashes match;
- runtime DB roles cannot own/replace public tables/functions or assume privileged
  owners; they lack superuser, CREATEROLE, BYPASSRLS and public CREATE privileges.

PHASE7_RUNTIME_DB_ROLES is the explicit comma-separated runtime role inventory.
Use a separate controlled maintenance connection for migrations; do not run the
application as the database owner. This tool inspects roles and memberships; it
does not grant/revoke or pretend to defeat a malicious DB owner. Ordinary deploy
reports role state; preparation and contract require safe configured runtime
roles. Grants for application DML/sequence use must be provisioned by the DBA.

Before the separately authorized contract rehearsal/deployment, keep Backend
and Desktop source roots immutable and generate a paired source receipt OUTSIDE
all four source trees. The base roots are the factual previously deployed sources;
this command does not discover a fleet or decide permitted rollback generations.
The output must not already exist. It is local evidence, not a production action:

  node scripts/database/phase7-release-source.js --backend-root=/release/backend --desktop-root=/release/desktop --base-backend-root=/previous/backend --base-desktop-root=/previous/desktop --package-id=REVIEWED_RELEASE_ID --output=/secure/release-source.json

The tool hashes both current and both base trees, checks them again, rejects
symlinks and oversized/unbounded source inventories, and never rewrites historical
phase7-release.json. Runtime data, credentials, node_modules and dist retain the
existing source-inventory exclusions. This is source evidence, not a binary
signature or proof that a running fleet was upgraded. The Backend later verifies
its own actual tree and the internal Desktop inventory hash; it cannot inspect
remote Desktop installations. Fleet/native acceptance stays a separate gate.

Copy PHASE7_OPERATOR_EVIDENCE_EXAMPLE.json outside source, replace every field
with real inventory/backup evidence, and remove placeholder hashes. Use base and
current hashes from the newly generated external receipt. Hash absolute real
archive paths with SHA256 UTF-8, no newline. stoppedBinaries must include both
supplied base hashes AND every older permitted rollback generation; the generator
cannot discover them. noOldBinariesRemain remains an operator attestation.

Only after the operator prerequisites above and the separate production decision:

  node scripts/maintenance/phase7-legacy-storage.js prepare-contract --close-rollback --release-file=/secure/release-source.json --operator-evidence=/secure/operator-evidence.json
  npm run prisma:migrate -- --contract --release-file=/secure/release-source.json

Use the same external receipt for both steps. The default historical
phase7-release.json remains supported only when it actually matches the entire
current source tree; stale metadata is never refreshed or ignored automatically.
Unknown/duplicate CLI arguments, misspelled options, boolean values such as
--contract=false/--create=false and invalid maintenance step limits fail explicitly.
An external receipt without --contract is rejected by the deploy CLI.

Contract admission checks the prepared database receipt against the current
release's Backend/Desktop hashes, base hashes, package ID, generation and plan.
After staging it verifies the exact schema/migration file set and bytes, rereads
source evidence, and repeats database admission before launching Prisma. A source
replacement, different prepared receipt or expired backup stops that launch.
Temporary migration staging is removed on both success and failure.

The SQL contract independently rechecks catalog fingerprint, same cohort receipt,
role privileges, old executions, cleanup proofs and verified scopes while holding
its own locks. It takes the nine named tables in stable order with
lock_timeout=5s and statement_timeout=60s, then drops them with RESTRICT in one
transaction. Unknown dependencies or contention fail; CASCADE is never used.
Do not replace sources during this operation. Filesystem checks do not make live
source replacement or a changed running process safe. Re-prepare after legitimate
source/catalog changes and restore affected archive verification when necessary.

OFFLINE ADMISSION PROOF126
  PHASE7_PROOF_RUNTIME=/isolated/dependencies node scripts/audit/phase7-contract-admission-proof.cjs

Optional PHASE7_PROOF_OUTPUT writes JSON. PHASE7_PROOF_BASELINE points to frozen125
Backend to reproduce the prior admission defect. The proof creates only its own
PGlite database and accepts no external database URL. It loads290 unchanged SQL
migrations, seeds506 rows before expand, exports/restores bounded tenant partitions,
and invokes real Prisma5.22 for retained redeploy, explicit isolated contract and
post-contract redeploy. Synthetic backup/fleet statements are confined to this
fixture and never constitute production approval. The test resets PGlite's single
physical session between independent Prisma Client/schema-engine clients; this
is not native PostgreSQL session/concurrency evidence. Production PRE/POST hooks
are covered by source regressions; the PGlite migration proof uses hooks=false.

DROP TABLES (physical names)
AnalyticsSnapshot, CreatorEarningsSnapshot, CreatorCampaignsSnapshot,
TeamResponseCase, TeamPendingDialogState, AutomationJob, FanObservationClock,
TrafficDailyAggregate, ImpersonationToken. Team *Current is retained. Secrets in
ImpersonationToken tokenHash are excluded from exports. No archived token is a
valid login/impersonation fallback.

ROLLBACK AND ACCEPTANCE LIMITS
Before DROP, keep the fenced bridge and stopped-binary inventory. Restoring an
old source tree alone is not an authorized rolling rollback: old claim gates
remain. After DROP, rollback requires a matching database backup plus matching
sources/binaries; it cannot be done by recreating empty old tables. The installer
--rollback restores source only, refuses later edits, and can recover a matching
interrupted journal when its installer PID no longer exists.

The release evidence distinguishes local PostgreSQL/PGlite proofs, real Prisma
fresh canonical-prefix deployment, unit/runtime-adapter tests and clean Linux
builds. PGlite's single session cannot satisfy the retained multi-session online
coverage preflight. Full production-like PostgreSQL deploy/redeploy, concurrent
locks on independent connections, Windows/Electron runtime and target load
remain external acceptance gates. Do not label those SOURCE/SCALE/RUNTIME CLOSED
based only on local evidence.
